# Advanced Programming Group Project - Image Processing 

This image processing project is a collection of image filtering algorithms implemented in C++. It provides various filters, such as Gaussian blur, median blur, and edge detection, that can be applied to images for noise reduction, edge preservation, and other image enhancement purposes.

# Table of Contents

- Introduction
- Prerequisites and Dependencies
- Installation and Usage
- !Check Output!
- Code Structure
- Testing
- Performance
- License

# Introduction

This project aims to provide a set of efficient and easy-to-use image processing algorithms for various applications, such as noise reduction, edge detection, and image enhancement. The implemented filters include:

## Colour correction
- Grayscale (reduce image from 3 RGB channels to 1 grayscale channel)
- Automatic colour balance (adjust each RGB channel so the average intensity of each
channel is equal)
- Brightness (may take an optional brightness value in the range -255 – 255 to add to all
pixels, or perform an automatic brightness filter by setting the average value of all pixels
in all channels to 128)
- Histogram equalization

## Image blur using convolution filters (of different kernel sizes)
- Median blur (replace each pixel value with the median of those around it), arbitrary
kernel size (3x3, 5x5, 7x7, etc)
- Box blur, arbitrary kernel size (3x3, 5x5, 7x7, etc)
- Gaussian blur (5x5, 7x7 kernels)

## Edge detection convolution filters
- Sobel (3x3 operators)
- Prewitt (3x3 operators)
- Scharr (3x3 operators)
- Roberts’ Cross (2x2 operators)

# Prerequisites and Dependencies

To build and run this project, you need the following prerequisites:

- C++ compiler with support for C++14 or higher (e.g., GCC, Clang, Visual Studio)
- CMake (version 3.8 or higher)
- stb_image library for image loading and saving
- Download CT Scan datasets here:
https://imperiallondon-my.sharepoint.com/:u:/g/personal/tmd02_ic_ac_uk/EafXMuNsbcNGnRpa8K62FjkBvIKvCswl1riz7hPDHpHdSQ

# Installation and Setup
### Step1: Clone the repository:

`git clone https://github.com/ese-msc-2022/advanced-programming-group-binary-search.git`


### Step2: 
open 'options.txt' for a simple user guide.

# !Check Output!
- If you want to reproduce the output, please complie "src/CheckOut.cpp" again.
- This file is what we used to generate output images and test the performance.
- The same output could be generated by using this.

# Code Structure

In an image processing pipeline:

- Image: Represents a 2D image and provides basic functionality to access and manipulate pixel data.
- Volume: Represents a 3D volume (e.g., a stack of 2D images) and provides functionality to access and manipulate volume data.
- Filter2D and derived classes: Perform image filtering operations (e.g., edge detection, blurring) on 2D images. These classes are independent of Projection and Slice but can be used in conjunction with them to process the images generated by these classes.
- Projection: Takes a Volume object as input and creates a 2D Image by projecting the 3D volume data onto a 2D plane. This operation can be performed using different projection techniques, such as min, max, mean, or median intensity projections.
- Slice: Takes a Volume object as input and extracts a 2D Image representing a slice along a specified axis and position in the volume.


# Testing

To run unit tests for the project, you can use the provided test files in the test directory. Simply build and run the test executable:
`./tests`

# License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.



